We'll use the PCI-CTR05 counter card in machines needing to count the clock signal other than the backend (computer running tracker, for example).

The hope is that this card can be used more easily than the national instruments cards under Ubuntu.  (We don't want the tracker running under CentOS like the backend b/c we're limited to less fancy libraries under CentOS).

A driver can be found here
ftp://lx10.tx.ncsu.edu/pub/Linux/drivers

Also pick up 60-mcc.rules from there.  Read the readme file.  I'm going to try to install it on my workstation presently..

Install notes:
copied the rules file.
Updating rules: need to use new command because udevcontrol no longer exists.  instead:

{{{
udevadm control --reload-rules
}}}

To see if module is loaded:
{{{
cat /proc/modules | grep "ctr05"
}}}

Running the compiled test program fails...

Check to make sure that the object got into the right directory

{{{
sudo update db
locate ctr05 | grep "modules"
}}}

Should return many things, among them  /lib/modules/[uname -r]/kernel/drivers/char/ctr05.ko

To check which modules are loaded:
{{{
modprobe -l | grep "ctr"
}}}

For me, this showed no loaded ctr05 module.  But, doing this
{{{
cd /lib/modules/[uname-r]
sudo depmod
sudo modprobe -v ctr05
}}}

Got the module onto /proc/modules   , showing up as -Live (P)  (not sure what these mean).

But running the test program, I get this error:
{{{
greghale@jellyroll:~/drivers/pci-ctr05$ ./test-ctr05 
/dev/ctr05/ctr0_01: No such file or directory
error opening device /dev/ctr05/ctr0_01
}}}

Stuck at this point, writing up a superuser.stackexchange question.
